Token based staking pool (#8)
near/initial-contracts: staking-pool/README.md

- `reward_fee_fraction` - `json serialized object` the initial value of the fraction of the reward that the owner charges delegators for running the node.
The fraction is defined by the numerator and denumerator with `u32` types. E.g. `{numerator: 10, denominator: 100}` defines `10%` reward fee.
The fraction can be at most `1`. The denumerator can't be `0`.

During the initialization the contract checks validity of the input and initializes the contract.
The contract shouldn't have locked balance during the initialization.
All current balance is converted to shares and will be staked (after the next action).
This balance can never be unstaked or withdrawn from the contract.
It's used to maintain the minimum number of shares, as well as help pay for the potentially growing contract storage.

### Delegator accounts

The contract maintains information per delegator in the persistent map keyed by the hash of the delegator account ID.

The information contains:
- Unstaked balance of the account.
- Number of "Stake" shares.
- The minimum epoch height when the unstaked balance can be withdrawn.

A delegator can do the following actions:

> **Deposit**

Reviewer: Maybe format as headings

# Staking / Delegation contract

This contract provides a way for other users to delegate funds to a single validation node.

Implements the https://github.com/nearprotocol/NEPs/pull/27 standard.

> There are 3 different roles:

Reviewer 2: Nit, but numbers ten and under are typically spelled out.

> There are 3 different roles:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three different roles:
```

- The staking pool contract account `my_validator`. A key-less account with the contract that pools funds.
- The owner of the staking contract `owner`. Owner runs the validator node on behalf of the staking pool account.

> - A delegator account `user1`. The account who wants to stake their fund to the pool.

Reviewer 2: Why not `user`?

Author: Updated.

The owner can setup such contract and validate on behalf of this contract in their node.
Any other user can send their tokens to the contract, which will be pooled together and increase the total stake.

> These users would accrue rewards (subtracted fees set by the owner).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These users accrue rewards (subtracted fees set by the owner).
```

Reviewer 2: Also it's not clear that they must deposit and then stake the tokens.

Then they can unstake and withdraw their balance after some unlocking period.

## Staking pool implementation details

> For secure operation of the staking pool, the contract should not have any access keys.

Reviewer 2: Need to explain why.

> This staking contract pools together staked tokens and issues "stake" shares to the owners of these tokens.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After users deposit tokens to the contract, they can stake some or all of them to receive shares.
```
Or something similar.

The number of "stake" shares is always less than the number of the staked tokens, so the price of single "stake" share is not less than `1`.

### Initialization

A contract has to be initialized with the following parameters:
- `owner_id` - `string` the account ID of the contract owner. This account will be able to call owner-only methods. E.g. `owner`
- `stake_public_key` - `string` the initial public key that will be used for staking on behalf of the contract's account in base58 ED25519 curve. E.g. `KuTCtARNzxZQ3YvXDeLjx83FDqxv2SdQTSbiq876zR7`
- `reward_fee_fraction` - `json serialized object` the initial value of the fraction of the reward that the owner charges delegators for running the node.
The fraction is defined by the numerator and denumerator with `u32` types. E.g. `{numerator: 10, denominator: 100}` defines `10%` reward fee.
The fraction can be at most `1`. The denumerator can't be `0`.

During the initialization the contract checks validity of the input and initializes the contract.
The contract shouldn't have locked balance during the initialization.

> All current balance is converted to shares and will be staked (after the next action).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The current total balance is converted to shares and will be staked (after the next action).
```

This balance can never be unstaked or withdrawn from the contract.
It's used to maintain the minimum number of shares, as well as help pay for the potentially growing contract storage.

### Delegator accounts

> The contract maintains information per delegator in the persistent map keyed by the hash of the delegator account ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The contract maintains account information per delegator associated with the hash of the delegator's account ID.
```

The information contains:
- Unstaked balance of the account.

> - Number of "Stake" shares.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Number of "stake" shares.
```

> - The minimum epoch height when the unstaked balance can be withdrawn.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The minimum epoch height when the unstaked balance can be withdrawn. Initially zero.
```

A delegator can do the following actions:

#### Deposit

> When a delegator account first deposit funds to the contract, the internal account is created and credited with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a delegator account first deposits funds to the contract, the internal account is created and credited with the
```

attached amount of unstaked tokens.

#### Stake

When an account wants to stake a given amount, the contract calculates the number of "stake" shares (`num_shares`) and the actual rounded stake amount (`amount`).
The unstaked balance of the account is decreased by `amount`, the number of "stake" shares of the account is increased by `num_shares`.
The contract increases the total number of staked tokens and the total number of "stake" shares. Then the contract restakes.

#### Unstake

> When an account wants to unstake a given amount, the contract calculates the number of "stake" shares needed (`num_shares`) and

Reviewer 2: Mention that that this is calculated with the current price of stake share.

The minimum epoch height when the account can withdraw is set to the current epoch height increased by `4`.
The contract decreases the total number of staked tokens and the total number of "stake" shares. Then the contract restakes.

#### Withdraw

When an account wants to withdraw, the contract checks the minimum epoch height of this account and checks the amount.
Then sends the transfer and decreases the unstaked balance of the account.

#### Ping

Calls the internal function to distribute rewards if the blockchain epoch switched. The contract will restake in this case.

### Reward distribution

Before every action the contract calls method `internal_ping`.
This method distributes rewards towards active delegators when the blockchain epoch switches.
The rewards might be given due to staking and also because the contract earns gas fee rebates for every function call.

The method first checks that the current epoch is different from the last epoch, and if it's not changed exits the method.

The reward are computed the following way. The contract keeps track of the last known total account balance.

> This balance consist of the initial contract balance, and all delegator account balances (including the owner) and all accumulated rewards.

Reviewer 2: >  and all accumulated rewards.

How are they added to the contract?

Reviewer 3: Automatically.

Reviewer 2: Can you elaborate?  If I was making a test how would this be done?  Is it a special transaction?

Reviewer: account.locked just increasing from time to time. That increase is a revard (inflation). But the amount of shares is fixed to the total locked balance as if there was no inflation.

changing the amount of "stake" shares owned by different accounts. Which is effectively distributing the reward based on the number of shares.

The owner's reward is converted into "stake" shares at the new price and added to the owner's account.
It's done similarly to `stake` method but without debiting the unstaked balance of owner's account.

Once the rewards are distributed the contract remembers the new total balance.

## Owner-only methods

Contract owner can do the following:
- Change public staking key. This action restakes with the new key.
- Change reward fee fraction.
- Vote on behalf of the pool. This is needed for the NEAR chain governence, and can be discussed in the following NEP: https://github.com/nearprotocol/NEPs/pull/62

## Staking pool contract guarantees and invariants

This staking pool implementation guarantees the required properties of the staking pool standard:

- The contract can't lose or lock tokens of users.
- If a user deposited X, the user should be able to withdraw at least X.
- If a user successfully staked X, the user can unstake at least X.

> - The contract should lock unstaked funds for longer than 4 epochs.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be the opposite?

Reviewer 3: What do you mean by opposite?

Reviewer 2: I mean for no more than 4.  Should it ever lock for 5 or more?

Author: @willemneal You're correct about "should not"
